# KnightStart
#### __HTML5__ starter kit for creating HTML5 applications and User Interfaces (UIs), intergrated with __GRUNTJS__ for fast, clean and optimised web app creation.

It has all the neccessary requirements to get anyone started in creating apps fast and easy.

## What does it do for me?
__KnightStart__ basically does the following:

* Lint your JS - *checks for any syntax error and prints it out to the command line*, and while the __watch__ API is active reports errors in the __Command line__ as you code.
* Prefixes your CSS, with either custom prefixes and browser required prefixes in related styles
* Clean, concatinate(join all), and minify your CSS and JS files
* Load the project into the browser directly with Live reload support, no more hitting the refresh button
* Monitor any changes and reflect the changes to the browser immidiately (checking for error before presentation)
* Create a test and distribution/final versions of your app or UI (whichever case you are using it for) in their respective folders without harming your original code/files

> Concatinates all __CSS__ into app.full.css and __JS__ into app.full.js or app.full.min.js after minification. And replacing all CSS and JS tags in your html file with one tag having the stated as thier sources. In __DISTRIBUTION__ version only though.


## Dependencies
You will need to install some stuff, if you haven't already:

Majors:

* Node.js - [Click here](http://nodejs.org) to install

Secondaries:

* npm
* gruntjs
* bower

## Cordova applications

It's also awesome for cordova applications:
* replace the __www__ folder content with this 
* and uncomment the 1st script..

```jade
// App's dependencies(libraries) and business logics
application-engine(description="all the application's JS files fall here")
	//- Base engine, for Phonegap app, uncomment this if you are using phonegap
	//- script(type="text/javascript" src="cordova.js")
```

> *NOTE: do not __delete__ or __replace__ the config.xml file in the www folder that was generated by 
__cordova create command__*

###### Requires cordova/phonegap v3.3 and above using the new CLI method for development and plugin loading

## Getting Started
Once you have NodeJS installed, run_(type/copy paste int the command line window)_:

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/jheneknights/knightstart
$ sudo npm install -g grunt-cli
$ npm install
```

This will install all the things you need for running the grunt-tasks automatically.

> *__Note:__ As stated prior. You need to have a running node.js and ruby along with npm. Please install this before setting up KnightStart in your project's directory. Ruby comes default in most systems nowdays so I believe you do have that already.*

##### Finally Build and launch

Now you can start developing your site. Therefore use the __GruntJS__ defualt task _(type in your Terminal and press ENTER)_:

```bash
$ grunt
```

This will create a __test__ and __dist__ folder with a test and distribution application version in their respective folders.

#### Live Reload – Take Productivity to the Next Level
[Read Article](https://blog.openshift.com/day-7-gruntjs-livereload-take-productivity-to-the-next-level/) To learn more about Live-Reload

One of the features of the __GruntJS watch plugin__ is that it can automatically reload changes. It is very helpful if we are making markup, style and javascript changes and want to get instant feedback without pressing the browser refresh button. 

To create a test and view the test version which a compiled and cleaned dev version of the project run:

```bash
$ grunt serve
```

And for the production/distribution version run (with no live-reload) since it reflects the final version of your UI/Web application:

```bash
$ grunt serve:dist
```

> __Note:__ Grunt watch will monitor any kind of changes made to the project and reflect it immediately to the browser. No need to hit refresh button anymore. The distributed version is not tied to live reload since it is emulating the final version of the product as it would have displayed on user's which does not require any live reload. When developing thus testing use the default -- __*grunt serve*__


### Yes! Just with boring old HTML (duuuuh!)
Yes, you can use the normal/old html way of writing markup. Just rename 'file_name' variable on line 63 to the name of the file you are working on. Do not add html or any extension tag whatsoever.

```
62.               file_name: 'myfilename', //eg for myfilename.html
```

### Though you could have the new girl in town: Jade Support
But you should __STOP__ WRITTING TIRESOME HTML. You do get tired opening and closing tags, dont you?! Jade fastens front-end developement by at least 5 times. Try [Jade](http://jade-lang.com) today.

It is supported off the box. No need to configure anything. Start writing JADE today. Chuck your phone and come with a 'am leaving you' message for HTML.


### Intergrated Tools - Deprecated in favour of [Bower](http://bower.io):
* Javascript Libraries for any minimal app requirements
	* JQuery *(Aaaarrhh!! Famous javascript library that makes DOM manipluations a breeze)*
	* Zepto -- *for those that prefer it over jQuery*
	* QuoJS -- *__JQuery__ like framework that supports touch events*
	* KnockoutJS
	* MomentJS
	* Handlebars
	* Underscore
	* jQuery plugins
		* mCustomScrollbar -- for scrolling
		* cookies -- cookie support
		* hammerJS -- for touch support *best used with jQuery*
		* easing -- enhance animations

* And many more...

Check out the *JS* folder where I have sorted them out into four categories:

* Libraries
* Plugins
* Scrolling
* More *(miscellenious libraries that come in handy)*

> __Note:__ Will remove folder completely on next commit, but will create the version which is inclusive of this libraries/components

## Browser support
* Chrome
* Firefox 4+
* Internet Explorer 8+
* Opera 12+
* Safari 5+

## Contributing
In lieu of a formal styleguide, take care to maintain the existing coding style. Add unit tests for any new or changed functionality. Lint and test your code using [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/).

## Release History
__Version: 0.2.0__

## License
Copyright (c) 2014 __Eugene Mutai__  
Licensed under the [MIT license](http://mit-license.org/)
